# CWAC-Cam2 and Permissions

Courtesy of Android Studio's manifest merger process, this library
will automatically add some permissions to your app's manifest:

- `CAMERA`
- `WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE`
- `RECORD_AUDIO`

Most apps using this library will need these permissions. However,
there are other considerations you may need to take into account
for your apps with respect to permissions.

## Android 6.0 Runtime Permissions

On Android 6.0+, all three of the permissions listed above are
considered `dangerous` permissions and therefore are subject to the
new runtime permission system. That means that not only do you
need the `<uses-permission>` element in the manifest for the permission,
but you need to ask the user for the permission at runtime, until
the user grants it (or tells you to stop asking).

By default, the library will not request these runtime permissions.
This logic should be in the app, not the library, as you will need to
deal with the cases where the user declines the permission. The library will check to
see if the permissions have been granted, and if they have not, the
library will fail quickly.

If you *really* want the library to handle these permissions,
call `requestPermissions()` on the `IntentBuilder` that you are using.
In that case, the library will handle some bare-bones work related to this,
asking the user for `CAMERA` and `RECORD_AUDIO`. 

This documentation is not designed to provide complete instructions
for using the runtime permission system. Please refer to
[the official documentation](http://developer.android.com/preview/features/runtime-permissions.html)
or [the author's book](https://commonsware.com/Android) for more
details.

The `demo` app implements a fairly rudimentary check for
runtime permissions. The `demo-playground` app has
a `SwitchPreference` for controlling whether `requestPermissions()` is
called; the app will crash if that `Switch` is not on and you try taking a
picture or recording a video.

## Blocking Permissions

If you do not intend to take videos, you could get away without
the `RECORD_AUDIO` and perhaps the `WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE`
permissions (depending on where you are saving the photos).
To remove those from your app's manifest, add
the following elements to your manifest, as children of the
root `<manifest>` element:

```xml
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO"
    tools:node="remove"/>
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
    tools:node="remove"/>
```

This tells the manifest merger process that while one or more
libraries might be asking for these permissions, block them
from the app's manifest generated by the merger.
